[click here for a PDF version](https://chriswilcox.dev/static/resume.pdf)

# *Google (March 2018 \- Present)*

## AI Foundations (January 2026 \- Present)

### **GitHub at Google (2026 Q1 \- Present)**

* Lead the GitHub.com at Google team, evolving how we host code at Google across Piper, Git-on-Borg, Github Enterprise Server, and GitHub.com.  
* Established and executed an internal program, *git serious*, an effort to shore up shortcomings in our security posture made obvious in the AI era as Vulnerability Reporting increased by over 600% YoY.

## Core Hybrid Platforms (November 2021 \- December 2025\)

Created a Hybrid Platform consisting of Borg and Google Cloud.I built tooling, infrastructure that made  it possible for Alphabet to use proprietary stacks and Google Cloud together seamlessly.  

### **MultiOrg (2025 Q4)**

* Strategic Reassignment. This project had a slipping timeline and leadership asked me to step in to  get things back on track.  
* Resolved cross team contentions around project direction and landed the replatforming and projects.

### **Cloud Control Platforms (2024 Q4 \- 2025 Q3)**

* Über Tech Lead (ÜTL) across Core, Measurement, Evaluation, Generation subteams, creating a platform that supports creation of Cloud presence in a security and privacy compliance way.  
* Delivered critical measurement and scaling optimizations saving 39 compute-hours of F1 (internal query engine) per day. Google recognized my contributions with a “Perfy”, a Google wide award given for high-value performance and efficiency gains.

### **Hybrid Infrastructure Actuation (Terraform) \-  (2024 Q1 \- 2024 Q3)**

* Strategic Reassignment. Led the enablement of Terraform for Alphabet GCP Usage.  
* Reimagined how Google made Terraform and Providers available. Responsible for migrating users to modern Terraform.  
* Reduced time to availability from months to minutes by revolutionizing import processes.Recognized with a “Core Tech Impact” Award for the savings generated by my work.

### **Hybrid Connect (2022 Q1- 2024 Q1)**

* Established next generational hybrid connectivity allowing services to seamlessly operate between Google’s internal production stack (Borg) and Public Cloud Offerings (GCP).   
* Accelerated deployment infrastructure by 3000%, reducing rollout infrastructure delays and team burden.

### **Bets Platform (Q4 2021 \- 2022 Q2)**

* Founding member of the team that created tooling to allow divisions of Alphabet to separate, or to integrate more closely, with Google’s production stack. Bootstrapped this organization hiring engineers and establishing the processes and [infrastructure](https://github.com/abcxyz).

## Exposure Notifications (April 2020 \- September 2020\)

### **Google/Apple Exposure Notifications (GAEN) Server** 

* Founding member of the cloud team for [Google Exposure Notifications](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exposure_Notification).  
* Google recognized my contributions with a “Feats of Engineering” Award.  
* Rapidly [architected and produced](https://github.com/google/exposure-notifications-server) a cross cloud server solution to support multiple nation states.

## Google Cloud (March 2018 \- November 2021\)

### **Client Libraries and SDKs**

* Lead client library and developer experience for database products; Firestore, Bigtable, Datastore.  
* Authored client libraries and tooling to enable releasing 100+ libraries across 7+ programming languages.

# 

# *Microsoft (February 2012 \- March 2018\)*

## Microsoft Azure Notebooks (January 2015-March 2018\)

* Developed a platform for sharing Python, R, and F\# code notebooks leveraging open source technologies including Docker and Jupyter.

## Python Tools for Visual Studio & Node.js Tools for Visual Studio (June 2014 – March 2018\)

* Worked on a small, collaborative, open-source team developing a top-tier Visual Studio experience for Node.js and Python development.

## Microsoft Azure Networking (February 2013 – June 2014\)

* Worked in a fast-paced, ambiguous organization shipping a high-quality distributed cloud system.  
* Developed monitoring solutions to quickly identify changes, allowing for faster incident response.

## Microsoft Visual Studio (February 2012 \- February 2013\)

* Shipped a high-quality update to the Find and Replace experience in Visual Studio.  
* Improved an existing process to substantially reduce turnaround time on a security sign off.  
* Worked on a performance V-Team concerned with typing responsiveness and compiler throughput.

# *Internships*

## Microsoft

### **Microsoft Visual Studio: Shell and Platform (Summer 2011)(May 2011 \- August 2011\)**

* Developed and ensured feature parity during a reimplementation of the Menu and Solution Management of Visual Studio.  
* Improved on an existing performance reporting system for Visual Studio.

### **Microsoft Visual Studio: Extensibility (Summer 2010)(May 2010 \- August 2010\)**

* Developed improvements to third-party extension development in Visual Studio.

## Quad Graphics

### **Software Development Intern (May 2009 – August 2009\)**

* Developed C\# web applications using SharePoint, MVC and CSLA frameworks.  
* Used the Agile style of software development to increase efficiency

## University of Wisconsin: Computer Aided Engineering

### **Microsoft Support Student Staff (May 2008 – December 2011\)**

* Administered all windows devices for the college of engineering.  
* Created a solution to better understand software and license utilization.	• 

# *Education*

**University of Wisconsin**, Madison, WI  
***Bachelor of Science Computer Engineering, Computer Science,** December 2011*

# *Skills*

**Languages:** Python, Go, Node.js, C\#, Java, C, Verilog, ARM

# *Publications*

* Dorman, Scott J. (2012). Sams’s Teach Yourself C\# 5.0 in 24 Hours. (Technical Editor)  
* De Smet, Bart (2013). C\# 5.0 Unleashed. (Technical Editor)